                           SCUPI 2025S: Microelectronics Circuits
                          Lab #2 Assignment: Diode Limiting Circuits
Objectives
• Measure and design limiting & protection circuits.

Useful links
Diode model number: 1N4007-TP
Diode datasheet: https://www.mccsemi.com/pdf/Products/1N4001~1N4007(DO-41).pdf

Introduction
In the lecture, we learned limiting & protection circuits and inverting amplifiers. In this lab, we will
measure and design limiting & protection circuits. Please perform the following actions and submit your
report using the format at the end of this documentation.

                                                                             R=10kΩ
Action #1.1: Analyze Figure 1 and draw analyzed transfer
characteristics and output voltage in the time domain, using          +                       +
the constant-voltage-drop model. Assemble the circuit shown
in Figure 1. Provide 14 VPP at 1 kHz for VIN. Use the oscilloscope
to obtain a simultaneous display of VIN(t) and VOUT(t). Take a
picture of your circuit and equipment. Include a figure to           VIN          +           VOUT
explain your setup using the picture. Annotate it with arrows                    3V
and texts in the figure. Include a captured image of the
                                                                      -           -            -
oscilloscope and discuss the result. Use the oscilloscope in the
X-Y mode to display the transfer characteristics of the circuit in
a different way. Include a captured image of the
oscilloscope and discuss the result.                                           Figure 1


Action #1.2: Design a circuit to achieve the transfer                         VOUT
characteristics shown in Figure. Draw the schematic and explain
its operation, using the constant-voltage-drop model. Assemble
the circuit and provide 14 VPP at 1 kHz for VIN. Use the
oscilloscope to obtain a simultaneous display of VIN(t) and
VOUT(t). Take a picture of your circuit and equipment. Include a
figure to explain your setup using the picture. Annotate it with     -2.7V
                                                                                                   VIN
arrows and texts in the figure. Include a captured image of the
oscilloscope and discuss the result. Use the oscilloscope in the
X-Y mode to display the transfer characteristics of the circuit in              -2.7V
a different way. Include a captured image of the oscilloscope and
discuss the result.
                                                                                Figure 2




                                                                                            1|Page
Action #1.3: Design a circuit to achieve the transfer                   VOUT
characteristics shown in Figure 3. Draw the schematic and
explain its operation, using the constant-voltage-drop model.
Assemble the circuit and provide 14 VPP at 1 kHz for VIN. Use       3V
the oscilloscope to obtain a simultaneous display of VIN(t) and
VOUT(t). Take a picture of your circuit and equipment. Include
a figure to explain your setup using the picture. Annotate it
with arrows and texts in the figure. Include a captured image     -1V
                                                                                            VIN
of the oscilloscope and discuss the result. Use the                                  3V
oscilloscope in the X-Y mode to display the transfer                      -1V
characteristics of the circuit in a different way. Include a
captured image of the oscilloscope and discuss the result.
                                                                          Figure 3




                                                                                          2|Page
                           SCUPI 2024S: Microelectronics Circuits
                            Lab #2 Report: Diode Limiting Circuits

Action #1.1
Analyze Figure 1 and draw analyzed transfer characteristics and output voltage in the time domain, using
the constant-voltage-drop model.




Take a picture of your circuit and equipment. Include a figure to explain your setup using the picture.




Include a captured image of the oscilloscope that shows VIN(t) and VOUT(t) and discuss the result.




Include a captured image of the oscilloscope that displays the transfer characteristics of the circuit and
discuss the result.




                                                                                                3|Page
Action #1.2
Draw the schematic and explain its operation, using the constant-voltage-drop model.




Take a picture of your circuit and equipment. Include a figure to explain your setup using the picture.




Include a captured image of the oscilloscope that shows VIN(t) and VOUT(t) and discuss the result.




Include a captured image of the oscilloscope that displays the transfer characteristics of the circuit and
discuss the result.




                                                                                                4|Page
Action #1.3
Draw the schematic and explain its operation, using the constant-voltage-drop model.




Take a picture of your circuit and equipment. Include a figure to explain your setup using the picture.




Include a captured image of the oscilloscope that shows VIN(t) and VOUT(t) and discuss the result.




Include a captured image of the oscilloscope that displays the transfer characteristics of the circuit and
discuss the result.




                                                                                                5|Page
